We had a look at grid auto flow rows and columns in the last lecture.
Now we also have a grid where we do define parts of the grid manually, we do define two columns.
Of course you can also define rows with grid template rows as you learned it, you could define for example
the first column. You could say the first, excuse me the first row, you could say the first row should
maybe have a size of let's say 20rem.
If you do that and you reload, then obviously the first child element will be put into that first row
because the grid is always populated according to the browser settings,
so for left-to-right languages, it's populated from top to bottom and from left-to-right, for other
right-to-left languages, the opposite is the case.
So the grid automatically populates its cells with the child elements and obviously, the first child
element goes into the first row.
Now the interesting thing I here really want to emphasize, is that we define two columns and one row manually.
Of course we have more than just one child
however, we got a bunch of childs, a bunch of quotes and all the other quotes which don't fit into the
predefined row and the two columns are then put into these automatically added cells.
The cells on the other hand are added automatically
because as you learned, the grid automatically adds new rows and each of the new rows still has the two manually
defined columns,
so I hope this makes sense.
It's really important to understand that you can consider or that you can think of the grid as an
implicit and explicit grid. The explicit grid is always the part you define with grid template columns
and grid template rows and sometimes, you define the entire grid like in our project where you defined
header, main and footer, that was everything we have on the page
but sometimes you only define parts of the grid or nothing at all and the parts you didn't define explicitly
are then managed with the implicit grid which you can in turn control with the grid auto settings here.
So I hope this makes sense.
I'm really emphasizing this because it is important to keep in mind how that grid works and that you can rely
on parts or on new rows by default being added automatically.